[CN-459] Add user code deployment documentation (#44)
hazelcast/hazelcast-platform-operator-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/user-code-deployment.adoc

= User Code Deployment
:description: pass:q[Hazelcast allows users to deploy code for their custom and domain classes. In the operator you can deploy your code from external buckets and Kubernetes ConfigMap objects. ]

{description}

> 

Author: I think it is a good idea to add a paragraph to sum up what the page is for. Should we do it in the description or create a new section?

About other methods, there is a way to share classes through members but we do not allow it since the members are operator by us. They can also deploy classes from the clients which we allow with the `clientEnabled` field.

> 

Reviewer: Hi there Muhammet, I think just a paragraph under the description would be fine.

> 

Reviewer: Is it OK to add this in otherwise that page is still a bit difficult to understand.

This topic explains how to configure code deployments. It also brings together examples of when you might use code deployments as part of the configuration of other features, such as the xref:hazelcast:data-structures:working-with-external-data.adoc[implementation of an external datastore] or an xref:hazelcast:computing:executor-service.adoc[executor service] for the asynchronous execution of tasks.

== Configuring User Code Deployment

Below are the configuration options for the User Code Deployment feature.

[cols="20%m,80%a"]
|===

> |Field|Description

Author: I guess you are mentioning the `secret` field, which is also a resource of Kubernetes. Only thing related to external buckets is `bucketURI`. Do you think we should still indicate which are for Kubernetes?

> |Field|Description

Reviewer: No, I think this is fine.

|clientEnabled
|When true, allows user code deployment from clients.

|bucketConfig
|Jar files in the bucket will be put under CLASSPATH.

>   - secret: Name of the secret with credentials for cloud providers.

Author: Not sure if the suggested changes are correct. The secret is not on the cloud provider it is a Kubernetes resources named [Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)

>   - secret: Name of the secret with credentials for cloud providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - secret: Name of the Secret object which holds the credentials for your cloud provider.
```
Is this better?

>   - bucketURI: Full path to blob storage bucket.

Author: I think we have repeating sentences in the suggestion.

>   - bucketURI: Full path to blob storage bucket.

Reviewer: Just updated the suggestion. Does that work better?

|writeDelaySeconds
|Number of seconds to delay the storing of entries.

|writeBatchSize
|Used to create batches when writing to map store.

|writeCoealescing
|It is meaningful if you are using write behind in MapStore. When it is set to true, only the latest store operation on a key during the write-delay-seconds will be reflected to MapStore.

|propertiesSecretName
|Properties can be used for giving information to the MapStore implementation. Properties will be taken from the secret with the given name.

|===

=== Example MapStore Configuration

Below is an example `Map` resource with MapStore configuration. 

.Example configuration
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/map-map-store.yaml[]
----

== Configuring Executor Services with the Operator

Hazelcast offers `IExecutorService` which is an implementation for `java.util.concurrent.ExecutorService`. With `IExecutorService`, you can execute tasks asynchronously and perform other useful tasks. To use Executor Service, users need to implement `Callable` or `Runnable` interfaces and deploy the deployed classes into Hazelcast cluster using User Code Deployment feature.

> Executor Service has two more variants Durable Executor Service and Scheduled Executor Service. More information can be found in the link:https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/computing/executor-service[documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three variants of the executor service:

- Executor Service
- Durable Executor Service
- Scheduled Executor Service.

Configuration options for a `Hazelcast` resource to work with all three variants are shown in this section, along with examples of how you might implement these options. For more detailed implementation information, see xref:hazelcast:computing:executor-service.adoc[Java Executor Service]. 
```

> Executor service configuration can be added into `Hazelcast` with the following configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Same content is included above.

[tabs]
====
Executor Service::
+
--

> More information can be found in the xref:api-ref.adoc#executorserviceconfiguration[API Reference] page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the xref:api-ref.adoc#executorserviceconfiguration[API Reference].
```
I couldn't see any content for the executor service. I guess this is being added now?

Author: It is in the [latest-snapshot doc page. ](https://docs.hazelcast.com/operator/latest-snapshot/api-ref#executorserviceconfiguration). But, I don't see it in the preview either, it seems that thing was merged after this PR was created.

Reviewer: ok, that sounds fine.

|===
|Field|Description

> |name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`name`
```

> |The name of the executor service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the executor service.
```

> |poolSize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`poolSize`
```

|The number of executor threads per member.

> |queueCapacity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`queueCapacity`
```

|Task queue capacity of the executor.

|===
--

Durable Executor Service::
+
--

> More information can be found in the xref:api-ref.adoc#durableexecutorserviceconfiguration[API Reference] page.

Reviewer: Repeat of suggested change from line 94.

Author: Answered above

|===
|Field|Description

> |name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`name`
```

> |The name of the executor service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the executor service.
```

> |poolSize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`poolSize`
```

|The number of executor threads per member.

> |durability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`durability`
```

> |Durability of the executor.

Reviewer: Could a more detailed description be given? What effect do the numerical values for this option have?

> |capacity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`capacity`
```

|Capacity of the executor task per partition.

|===
--

Scheduled Executor Service::
+
--

> More information can be found in the xref:api-ref.adoc#scheduledexecutorserviceconfiguration[API Reference] page.

Reviewer: Repeat of suggested change from line 94.

|===
|Field|Description

> |name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`name`
```

|The name of the executor service.

> |poolSize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`poolSize`
```

|The number of executor threads per member.

> |durability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`durability`
```

> |Durability of the executor.

Reviewer: Could a more detailed description be given? What effect do the numerical values for this option have?

> |capacity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`capacity`
```

|Capacity of the executor task per partition.

> |capacityPolicy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`capacityPolicy`
```

|The active policy for the capacity setting.

|===
--

====

=== Example Executor Services

> Below is an example `Hazelcast` resource with Executor Services configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example `Hazelcast` resource with Executor Services configured.
```

[tabs]
====
Executor Service::
+
--
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-executor-service.yaml[]
----
--

Durable Executor Service::
+
--
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-durable-executor-service.yaml[]
----
--

Scheduled Executor Service::
+
--
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-scheduled-executor-service.yaml[]
----
--

====

> == Configuring Entry Processor with the Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring an Entry Processor with Hazelcast Platform Operator
```

> Entry Processor executes your code on a map entry in an atomic way. Users implement the `EntryProcessor` interface and deploy the classes using the User Code Deployment feature. More information about entry processors can be found in the link:https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/latest/computing/entry-processor[documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entry processor executes your code on a map entry in an atomic way. To implement the `EntryProcessor` interface, you can deploy an `EntryProcessor` class from the Hazelcast Platform Operator to the classpath of a Hazelcast member. See xref:hazelcast:computing:entry-processor.adoc[Entry Processor] for more detailed information.
```

= User Code Deployment

> :description: Hazelcast allows you to deploy your own custom and domain classes to cluster members. From Hazelcast Platform Operator, you can deploy your application code from external buckets and ConfigMap objects in Kubernetes. ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Hazelcast allows you to deploy your own custom and domain classes to cluster members. From Hazelcast Platform Operator, you can deploy your application code from external buckets and ConfigMap objects in Kubernetes.
```

{description}

== Configuring User Code Deployment

Below are the configuration options for the User Code Deployment feature.

[cols="20%m,80%a"]
|===
|Field|Description

|`clientEnabled`
|When set to true, this option enables custom code deployment from Hazelcast clients.

> |`bucketConfig`

Reviewer: Just need to add a line before the two bullet points in the table because they are not showing correctly on the page. Take a look on the Netlify preview: https://deploy-preview-44--pedantic-goldberg-f76ec1.netlify.app/operator/latest-snapshot/user-code-deployment.

> |JAR files from the external bucket are placed under the Java classpath when the following parameter values are supplied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|JAR files from an external bucket are placed under the Java classpath when the following parameter values are supplied:
```
Apologies, I missed this before.

= User Code Deployment
:description: Hazelcast allows you to deploy your own custom and domain classes to cluster members. From Hazelcast Platform Operator, you can deploy your application code from external buckets and ConfigMap objects in Kubernetes.

{description}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This topic explains how to configure code deployments. It also brings together examples of when you might use code deployments as part of the configuration of other features, such as the xref:hazelcast:data-structures:working-with-external-data.adoc[implementation of an external datastore] or an xref:hazelcast:computing:executor-service.adoc[executor service] for the asynchronous execution of tasks.
```

== Configuring User Code Deployment

Below are the configuration options for the User Code Deployment feature.

[cols="20%m,80%a"]
|===
|Field|Description

|`clientEnabled`
|When set to true, this option enables custom code deployment from Hazelcast clients.

|`bucketConfig`
|JAR files from an external bucket are placed under the Java classpath when the following parameter values are supplied:

>   - secret: Name of the Secret object which holds the credentials for your cloud provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `secret`: Name of the Secret object which holds the credentials for your cloud provider.
```

= User Code Deployment
:description: Hazelcast allows you to deploy your own custom and domain classes to cluster members. From Hazelcast Platform Operator, you can deploy your application code from external buckets and ConfigMap objects in Kubernetes.

{description}

> This topic explains how to configure code deployments. It also brings together examples of when you might use code deployments as part of the configuration of other features, such as the xref:hazelcast:data-structures:working-with-external-data.adoc[implementation of an external datastore] or an xref:hazelcast:computing:executor-service.adoc[executor service] for the asynchronous execution of tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic explains how to configure code deployments. It also brings together examples of when you might use code deployments as part of the configuration of other features, such as the xref:hazelcast:data-structures:working-with-external-data.adoc[implementation of an external data store] or an xref:hazelcast:computing:executor-service.adoc[executor service] for the asynchronous execution of tasks.
```
